
Before going into their difference let us understand first what is JDBC and Hibernate. JDBC(Java Database Connectivity) is an API which is used to access database in a java program. In simpler words it is a tool for java-database connection. There are various methods and queries provided by JDBC for accessing database. For making connections drivers are provided by JDBC.

Hibernate is an ORM tool which is used to map database tables to java classes. It is making it quite easy to implement to implement OOP concept of java to database tables. Hibernate makes the connection itself and in hibernate to operate over the tables we use hibernate’s query language. So in JDBC we were using SQl(structured query language) but here it itself provides the language which is popularly known as Hql.

In JDBC driver was used for opening and closing the connection whereas in hibernate session is used for the same and then operations are done using persistent object(class to which table is mapped). Session is provided by sessionFactory which is an interface. For one database connection one sessioFactory is maintained.

So in JDBC where we were writing each line of code everytime to map each column of table is quite easily handled by Hibernate itself. And also for connection we provide single configuration file and rest is managed by hibernate itself. Also Hql which is provided by Hibernate makes use of various object concepts like inheritance etc.


1. As Hibernate is set of Objects , you don?t need to learn SQL language.
You can treat TABLE as a Object . Only Java knowledge is need.

In case of JDBC you need to learn SQL.

2. Hibernate supports Query cache and It will provide the statistics about your query and database status.

JDBC Not provides any statistics.

3.Hibernate is data base independent, your code will work for all ORACLE,MySQL ,SQLServer etc.

In case of JDBC query must be data base specific.

4.You will get benefit of Cache. Hibernate support two level of cache. First level and 2nd level. So you can store your data into Cache for better performance.

In case of JDBC you need to implement your java cache .

5.No need to create any connection pool in case of Hibernate. You can use c3p0.

In case of JDBC you need to write your own connection pool

6.Development fast in case of Hibernate because you don?t need to write queries

7.ou can load your objects on start up using lazy=false in case of Hibernate.

JDBC Don?t have such support.

8. Hibernate Supports automatic versioning of rows but JDBC Not.


 
JDBC
JDBC is a persistence technology

HIBERNATE
Hibernate is a persistence Framework.

JDBC
In JDBC developer is responsible to taking and closing the connection and also write the SQL statement.

HIBERNATE
In Hibernate HRS(Hibernate Runtime System) is responsible for taking the connections,creating the statement and releasing the connections.

JDBC
JDBC does not have any ORM tool.

HIBERNATE
Hibernate have ORM (Object relational Mapping) tools which simplifies all the works(like caching mechanism, supports Object Oriented Query Language etc. ). that why Hibernate is the King of among all persistence Framework.
we can set more than one Isolation Level in JDBC

In hibernate only one isolation level.


JDBC doesn't support distributed transaction

Hibernate support distributed transaction with CME(Container Mananged Environment) i.e with Spring Container and EJB container.
JDBC does not support any type of mapping

Hibernate Support various mapping styles(like simple mapping,collection mapping,inheritance mapping,association mapping and other mappings), optimization facility (like dirty checking,lazy associating fetching etc.),locking mechanism(optimestic and pesimistic lock) and also provide facility to express joins.


JDBC								                        Hibernate
JDBC does not support lazy loading			    Hibernate does support lazy loading which offers better performance
In JDBC user is responsible for creating
and closing the connections				          But in case of hibernate Run time system takes care of creating and closing the connections
JDBC is a technology				                Hibernate is a orm framework
Does not support associations				        support associations.
