1.Spring 

The Spring framework can be considered as a collection of sub-frameworks, also called layers, such as Spring AOP. Spring Object-Relational Mapping (Spring ORM). Spring Web Flow, and Spring Web MVC. You can use any of these modules separately while constructing a Web application. The modules may also be grouped together to provide better functionalities in a Web application.

2. Spring Boot :

Spring Boot is built on top of the conventional spring framework. So, it provides all the features of spring and is yet easier to use than spring. Spring Boot is a microservice-based framework and making a production-ready application in very less time. In Spring Boot everything is auto-configured. We just need to use proper configuration for utilizing a particular functionality. Spring Boot is very useful if we want to develop REST API.
used for RAD (Rapid Application Development)



	Spring																			        Spring Boot
	
1.	Spring is an open-source lightweight 							Spring Boot is built on top of the conventional spring framework,
framework widely used to develop enterprise						widely used to develop REST APIs.				
applications.	 
2.	The most important feature of the Spring
Framework is dependency injection.									   The most important feature of the Spring Boot is Autoconfiguration.
3. 	It helps to create a loosely coupled application.	 It helps to create a stand-alone application.
4. 	To run the Spring application, we need to set 
the server explicitly.														     Spring Boot provides embedded servers such as Tomcat and Jetty etc.
5.	To run the Spring application, a deployment
descriptor is required.													       There is no requirement for a deployment descriptor.
6.	To create a Spring application, the developers
write lots of code.															        It reduces the Boiler Plate Code.
7.	It doesn’t provide support for the in-memory 
database.                                             	It provides support for the in-memory database such as H2.

more :

https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/spring-boot-tutorial/spring-vs-spring-boot
